BEN: So what what is your name and what was
your title when you're working on the US
Geological Survey?
EFFIE: My name is Effie Shaw
and I was a physical science technician
and I worked in the labs at the
Geological Survey, specifically the micro
paleontology lab where we looked at the
different fossils that are found in the
geologic column or the geologic cores
that we would pull out of the Earth and
from that we could age date the
different layers, so we can tell what
period of time that pollen or those
dinoflagellates or ostracods had been
deposited in the soil
RYAN: So what can you
tell by looking at the soil of a planet
EFFIE: From looking at the soil of a planet
mostly you can tell when it about its
origins so from the age of the rocks
that's there, whether or not it formed
four and a half billion years ago or if it
formed after that so if it's formed in
the original Big Bang Bang explosion or
whether it was a subsequent star
explosion that it formed in by looking
at the content of what's in it and from
that also you can tell about the
geologic processes that have taken place
on that planet since its origin you can
look at the formation of comets and you
can see glacial activity on a lot of
different heavenly bodies that so you
know that it's carved out by something
such as ice so that's basically
BEN: So we we
could tell how Mars was formed how old
it was and all that
EFFIE: Yes
RYAN: Alright how do a scientist ensure sample
can get back to Earth and how do they
make sure that they aren't contaminated?
EFFIE: Okay so somehow they have to have a probe
or a drill that they'll be able to
extract the sample and the very instant
that it is extracted it has to be
contained in something such as a vacuum
a small vacuum of some kind that would
not be opened until they had it here in
a clean situation where nothing here on
Earth would contaminated because it
would be a shame to research something
that was from Mars and then find out
that it was actually contaminated by
something here from Earth.
So a vacuum in
a clean situation and then they would
have to have a way of cleaning
of cleaning their
probes while on the other planet before
they contained the new material the next
sample.
RYAN: So what qualities of the soil on Earth does would we be looking for on
Mars?
EFFIE: Well we would be looking for what
mineral content that it had that
possibly would be useful to us and in
particular if we were to ever set up a
colony on Mars be able to sustain
ourselves there we would need to have
all the minerals that the plants would
be made from because we would want to
use some of that we don't
we're not going to take it with
us so we want to use their soil to grow
plants in that we could supply food for.
BEN: Okay, thank you very much for helping
with this interview.
EFFIE: And you're welcome.